[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>SEAN MCNAMARA: What the
out-of-body experience, as well
as clairvoyance and telepathy,
show us is that some part of us
does extend in a non-physical
manner beyond the body
and beyond space and time.
The physical brain,
these three pounds
of wet matter inside our
skulls-- that's the veil.
And its job is to
keep us grounded
in this temporary existence, so
it blocks a lot of information
out, including that
part of our self
that is more than physical.
>>GEORGE NOORY: How do you teach
other people to be psychic?
>>MCNAMARA: It's really about
relaxation and just repetition.
And when people are open to
it and don't overthink it,
they'll succeed.
And they still don't understand,
like, how did I do that?
And that's the tricky part is
we don't know exactly how it
happens, just that it does.
>>NOORY: Well, welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
Sean McNamara, with us, began
to experience psychic abilities
in his 30s--
he's not that old now.
And after becoming
frustrated with the direction
his spiritual life
had taken, he decided
to do something about it.
Sean, welcome to
"Beyond Belief."
>>MCNAMARA: Thanks
for having me, George.
>>NOORY: How did this
happen to you, though?
What happened?
>>MCNAMARA: Well, there
was a personal crisis
is the best way to put it.
I grew up as a religious
person, and as a younger adult,
I pursued other formal
religions to find some answers
for myself.
And it was all based
on my fear of death.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>MCNAMARA: When I was a
kid, I had an appendectomy.
I had appendicitis,
and I didn't know
what it was when the
pain started coming on.
So there were a few
days where I was--
>>NOORY: Not good.
>>MCNAMARA: --in
excruciating pain,
and then my parents
took me to the hospital.
And that was my first
encounter, basically,
with my own mortality.
When the surgery was over,
and I came out of it,
they said my
appendix had ruptured
while they were taking it out.
And they told me if I
hadn't been in the hospital,
things could have gone--
>>NOORY: You would have died.
>>MCNAMARA: I would have died.
>>MCNAMARA: And so as a child,
to start thinking about that,
it just became a formative
force in my life.
I was always haunted
by this idea of death
and what happens afterward.
And I was raised Catholic, and
so there's that belief system
there.
>>NOORY: As I was.
Same thing.
>>MCNAMARA: Yeah.
And maybe you're like
me-- this way, too.
I'm a stubborn
person, and I want
to find answers for myself, so
I wasn't really satisfied just
being told what to believe.
And so in my young
adulthood, I started
practicing Buddhism to see if
maybe meditating would give me
a way to find answers about
the afterlife for myself.
But it turns out that I
just did a good job of being
a good Buddhist, following the
tradition, and along the way,
I forgot my real
mission, which was
to find real answers
about life and death.
And I also was just a
little bit disappointed
by what I saw from
different teachers
and how they treated
other people.
I just became frustrated,
and I realized
I need to find my own way and
stop looking to other people
to offer me answers.
>>NOORY: They can give you a
little idea once in a while,
but that's about it.
>>MCNAMARA: That's about it.
The problem with
religions or traditions
is a lot of information
that's passed on
and the people passing them
on, it's their job, in a sense,
to preserve the information.
So if you have your
own information that's
different than
what's being taught,
then that's a threat
to the tradition
because it's different.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MCNAMARA: And they
don't like that.
And I really wasn't
satisfied just resembling
what they were
teaching or following
that fixed path anymore because
it wasn't going where I really
needed to go with my life.
So I needed to find my own
way and create my own path.
And that's when I started
reading more books about how
to have an out of
body experience
because I figured if
I could find a way
to leave my body before I
die, that would really give me
a direct answer about, is
any part of me not physical?
Will any part of me
exist after my body dies?
>>NOORY: You know, Sean,
the older one gets,
the closer one thinks
about the dying process.
But I'm at a point in
my life right now where
I'm not in a rush to get there,
but I'm not afraid anymore.
I used to be.
I used to be concerned
like you did.
But after interviewing so
many people about what it is,
I'm convinced we don't die.
We just move on.
I'm not ready to move on,
but when that time comes,
I'll be ready.
>>MCNAMARA: When I imagine
the advantage you have
is that you've heard so
many stories from people,
that they're touching on
that truth in different ways,
but they're authentic.
They're experience-based.
>>NOORY: And there's so many
of them saying the same thing.
>>MCNAMARA: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Dannion Brinkley--
dead three times.
But you talked about your
out-of-body experiences.
Are you able to do
that at will now?
>>MCNAMARA: Not exactly.
I'm one of those people that
with any psychic ability that I
do, I have to work
really, really
diligently at it for a period
of time before it happens.
So I know some
people can probably
lay down on any
night of the week
and have an out-of-body
experience that night.
For me, I have to do the
training for several weeks,
usually.
>>NOORY: I had one
when I was 11--
haven't done it since.
Can't do it.
I'll do it at my
dream state maybe.
>>MCNAMARA: Mm-hmm.
Yeah, sometimes it'll
happen spontaneously,
or if life arranges
it that way for it
to happen for you for
a reason, perhaps.
For me, I need to do certain
techniques over and over again
until it happens,
and that might be
that way for other people too.
They receive the instructions,
but it's up to them
to put in the work, and
then find their own answers
or interpret their own
experience afterwards.
So that's what I think keeps
it an authentic experience
that no two out-of-body
experiences are alike.
Some are similar, but I've never
had two that are exactly alike.
>>NOORY: Talking about
out-of-body experiences,
on Gaia's "Open
Minds," they talked
about that and the merging
of out-of-body experiences
with meeting a
perceptive person.
>> When you're out of
body, they're in-body,
and they can see you.
Has that happened?
>> Oh, yes.
>> Yes, that's what
I'm referring to.
>> That has happened.
>> Yeah.
>> That is a little
bit more difficult--
>> Yeah.
>> --because, really, that
person needs to have a lot
of intuition or clairvoyance
or clear audience.
They might be able to hear you.
And it really boils down
to whether the person
at that moment can
perceive something
that the physical
person, I mean,
when you are outside the body.
And obviously, many
people are psychic.
Many people have abilities
that go beyond the five senses.
What happens many times-- and
I many times mention this--
what happens many times is that
the physical reality attracts
our attention to the
physical reality,
and normally, most people don't
go around with their antennas
on trying to see who is around
there or who is around them.
Even the people who
are listening to us
at this moment, they
could ask themselves,
during this 20 minutes that
we've been in this chat here,
who has been standing around me?
>> Right.
>> Probably this is an idea or
a question that we hadn't asked
ourselves, but it doesn't mean
that there was somebody there.
I don't want to put
anybody-- you know,
I don't want to scare anybody.
But there could have been.
>> Yeah.
>> And we could
have perceived it.
It's just simply that we don't
go around with our antennas on.
>>NOORY: I envy people, Sean,
who can do OBEs at will.
They just, poof.
>>MCNAMARA: Wouldn't
that be nice?
>>NOORY: Robert Monroe, the late
Robert Monroe was one of them.
>>MCNAMARA: Yeah, I think
as a modern society,
we owe a debt of
gratitude to Robert Monroe
because not only did he come to
understand his own experiences,
and at first, he
thought he was crazy.
He went to see his--
>>NOORY: Yeah, he
thought there was
something wrong with himself.
>>MCNAMARA: --I think
it was a psychologist.
Yeah, and he figured it
out and wrote about it,
and then a lot more people
started to learn about it.
Luis Minero, who we just saw--
I relied on his book when
I was training myself--
>>NOORY: Really?
>>MCNAMARA: --along
with other books.
It was--
>>NOORY: Small world.
>>MCNAMARA: It was
a wonderful treat
to see him just now
because these people who
spread the information,
and thank you
to the internet and the
availability of books, people
are getting educated faster
and more efficiently than ever
before in these abilities where
before, if you were a witch,
you would be burned.
>>NOORY: Yeah, absolutely right.
Now, you continue to teach
people psychically, don't you?
>>MCNAMARA: I do, but
I have online courses.
And I have a small group
of friends in Denver,
and we get together every few
months and do some experiments.
And we've been doing
that for a few years
with different sets of people.
But we've done some very
interesting work, particularly
with remote viewing.
And--
>>NOORY: So you touch
on all this, don't you?
>>MCNAMARA: For me, they're
all the same thing at the core,
and that's about
information transfer.
We might think of the
out-of-body experience
as some part of me is
leaving my physical body,
and clairvoyance is that the
information is coming to me
while I'm awake, let's say.
But in the end, it's really
about the information
that is me perceiving
the information
of another world or a picture
that I'll be shown tomorrow.
And in that sense, the future
and past don't really matter.
Time doesn't work the same
way in the psychic space.
So it's information
influencing or perceiving
other objects of information.
>>NOORY: The more you got into
this, Sean, the better you get.
What areas did you enhance--
psychic abilities,
remote viewing,
you mentioned, how
about clairvoyance?
Did all those get
better for you?
>>MCNAMARA: They get better
when I practice consistently.
The challenge for me
is my own belief system
because I'm really
hard on myself.
Actually, that's one component.
The other component is the
amount of stress in my life.
And I think it's
good for people who
want to learn these abilities
to understand that, in a sense,
the last few years, when
I was really developing
these abilities, it's as if
the waters of the Dead Sea
had parted open.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>MCNAMARA: And I saw a path.
But after that--
>>NOORY: You felt that.
>>MCNAMARA: --everything
closed down again.
And some part of
me doesn't believe
everything I've experienced.
And when I let that part
of me get too strong,
it's as if I shut
everything down.
And I think it's a defense
mechanism of some type.
>>NOORY: What are you afraid of?
>>MCNAMARA: Well,
some part of me
just doesn't want
to fool myself.
So it's the danger of
writing about my experiences,
sharing it with other people,
or if I teach a class,
sometimes I would teach
classes on telekinesis,
moving objects with
your mind, and there
would be people present
who thought I was crazy.
And I don't want to--
what if they're right?
What if I'm crazy?
So that's a
psychological factor.
>>NOORY: Yeah, but if you're
crazy, we're all crazy.
>>MCNAMARA: I do think it's
crazier to think that all
we are are blood and bones.
And that's what the out-of-body
experience as well as
clairvoyance and telepathy
show us is that some part of us
does extend, in a nonphysical
manner, beyond the body
and beyond space
and time and can
communicate with other beings
too, human or otherwise.
So all these
experiences are evidence
that we are so much more, as
Robert Monroe used to say,
we are more than
our physical body.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
You've heard of the
work of Theresa Bullard?
>>MCNAMARA: No.
>>NOORY: All right,
well, you're going
to see what she
has to say, and I
want to get your reaction
right after that, Sean.
>> But to begin with, this
physical body is not who we
are.
The body is a vehicle.
Who we are, our true
life, is eternal spirit
or intelligent mind.
If we widen our view of
life beyond the physical,
if we take into account
the progression of spirit
and consciousness, we must
look at a bigger picture.
We've explored elsewhere how our
universe is composed of 144,000
rays or density levels.
This physical realm exists
at the 144,000th ray,
the densest and
lowest vibration.
Kabbalistic and Mystery
School teachings
describe how light forms
the material world.
As the vibration slows down from
the highest spiritual source,
it passes through the full
electromagnetic spectrum
of light, and then it moves
through the octaves of sound.
It continues down through
the various density
levels, including
ether, and finally,
materializes in the physical.
Everything vibrates at
specific frequency levels.
Here on Earth, we humans
are attuned to perceive
and experience a relatively
narrow range of frequencies
through our senses.
>>NOORY: Scientifically, she's
pretty spot on, isn't she?
>>MCNAMARA: Well I think
she's got something there.
And my experiences in
the out-of-body state
connect with what she said
about different frequencies
or different levels because,
in my experience, when
I seem to travel
to different areas
or have different
experiences, they
are different in
fundamental ways,
as if I'm going from one
frequency to another.
So she's really on
to something there.
Quantum physics has a lot
to say about phenomena
that we could relate psychic
abilities to, particularly
with mind over matter,
where your expectation
and when you observe an
event can actually influence
the outcome of an event.
>>NOORY: Do you
believe these things
we've been talking about
today, Sean, are physical
and tied to the body, or
is it outside of that?
>>MCNAMARA: The
subjective experience--
>>NOORY: It's a
perplexing question.
>>MCNAMARA: It is,
and it's complex.
But on one hand, we
are a combination
of a physical body and a
brain and that part of us
that is more than that.
And the brain serves as a filter
and as a communication device,
such as an antenna
on a television.
We are temporarily the
television set and the antenna.
>>NOORY: We're the receiver.
>>MCNAMARA: We're the receiver.
But we are also the signal,
and when the receiver dies,
the signal continues on
through space and time.
A lot of people
talk about crossing
the veil in terms of life
and death or perceiving.
My notion is that the
physical brain, these three
pounds of wet matter inside
our skulls, that's the veil.
And its job is to
keep us grounded
in this temporary existence
to be human beings
for a short period of time.
So it blocks a lot of
information out, including
that part of our self that
is more than physical.
If we knew the answers
at the back of the book,
if we could see into
the future and learn
the lessons ahead of time,
what would be the point?
So in a sense, our
brain, as the veil,
serves a purpose to keep
us in this limited form
so that we make all those
dumb mistakes we make in life
and learn from--
>>NOORY: Over and over and over.
>>MCNAMARA: Over and
over and over again,
because if we already
knew everything, then
there would be no journey.
>>NOORY: Why does prayer work?
>>MCNAMARA: Well, I
believe it's not very
different from psychokinesis.
It's about intention.
It's about emotion, energy--
>>NOORY: Affirmation.
>>MCNAMARA: --the direction
of the mind, affirmation,
and it's a--
prayer puts someone in a
place, in a state of mind
where they're open to larger
possibilities, where they're
reaching out to
communicate with--
we could use the word
"God" or whatever language
works for people.
>>NOORY: Whatever works.
>>MCNAMARA: It's a way of
turning on the antenna,
making requests, looking at
the possibilities of life.
It's also a way of reflecting
on how one's life is going up
to date, looking and
seeing, what could I change?
What I wish would be different,
how could I be a better person,
and how can I connect to source
or God or to my higher self?
So it's a way of reaching
out, and, in a way,
just the act of reaching
out opens the door.
It's remembering
who we really are.
It wouldn't make sense
to pray if we really
were just bones and blood.
It wouldn't make sense.
>>NOORY: So true.
So true.
Can we get better with
prayer to do things and make
things happen?
>>MCNAMARA: Absolutely.
And I think it's a practical
question about improving
our ability to pray
or meditate or do
any contemplative activity.
And today's challenge
in this century
is, how much time can
we dedicate every day
to connecting with
that part of ourself,
doing those types of
activities, versus feeding
an addiction to social media or
watching too much television?
>>NOORY: Or your smartphone.
>>MCNAMARA: Smartphone.
There are two very different
types of mental states.
>>NOORY: They say, by the
way, the average person
looks at his smartphone
87 times a day.
I think that's low.
>>MCNAMARA: [LAUGHS] I
might be with you there.
And I'm trying--
lately, I've been
trying to reduce that for
myself because I realize
that's where the
brain can actually
do an even stronger job than
it's intended to in keeping us
in our bodies because of
the dopamine response,
the addictive nature
of social media,
and it makes our brain
really fix us even more
in this physical,
limited way of being.
And so our access to that
larger part of ourselves
is minimized because of what's
happening just from looking
at these devices all the time.
>>NOORY: Well, you brought up
something interesting though.
You bring up the brain, which
is tied into the physical body.
What about outside of the brain?
Does it function?
Does something function
outside of the brain?
Consciousness, for
example-- where
does that originate--
in the brain or outside?
>>MCNAMARA: I think the most
intriguing answer I can come up
with, which may be
wrong, is that it's
beyond time and space.
So it's everywhere and
nowhere at the same time,
that it communicates--
while we're alive,
there's a junction between
that part of us, the larger
part, and the physical brain.
Somehow, they have to interact.
And so when people
ask, are you-- are we
just that big aspect?
Is that who we really are?
We are that, but we
also have to acknowledge
that our brain and
our physical being
is a storehouse for our
temporary experiences.
So trauma, memories,
patterns, skills
that we learn with this
body-- all that does
occur and depend on
the physical brain.
>>NOORY: And stress.
>>MCNAMARA: And stress.
So we can't just ignore
that human part of us.
It's an important part, at
least while we're alive.
And maybe when we pass
over, all that information
we accrued in this
body gets passed on
or reabsorbed into that
larger part of our self,
into our soul or
spirit, for lack of--
>>NOORY: Astral bodies.
>>MCNAMARA: Astral bodies.
Whatever it is, there might
be a record-keeping process
or a growth process.
And maybe the task of
consciousness in general
is to learn and
expand continually.
So when consciousness
occupies a life form,
whether it's human
or animal or other,
that's the opportunity
for consciousness
to experience in a very
solid way, in a definite way,
and then take those experiences
with it when the body passes on
and, perhaps, reincarnate
in another form
or some other form of existence.
we don't even know about.
>>NOORY: Why does
stress or trauma, Sean,
block our abilities to move on?
>>MCNAMARA: Well,
on a physical level,
traumas have a way of
interrupting the brain
processes of
communication, so to speak.
For example, if
someone is attacked,
and then they're asked
to give a police report,
they might not even
be able to speak
because the center of
speech in the brain
has been separated
from the memory
section or some other
part of the brain.
And so on a basic level,
trauma limits communication,
and communication is so
important to understand--
>>NOORY: It's critical.
>>MCNAMARA: --and connect
with even that spiritual part
of ourself.
We might be able to
receive information
from the spiritual realms
or the non-physical realms,
but for us to understand
it with the brain process,
and then communicate
it with others,
the brain has to be
in a healthy state,
an open state, a relaxed state.
And so the best way,
perhaps, to shut a person's
psychic abilities down is to
continually stress them out
or keep them addicted to
technology, sadly to say.
>>NOORY: Gaia has
a program called
"Microdose," which
looks into astral travel
and why it benefits us.
>> Besides having an experience
where you can fly anywhere
or any time you want, what are
some of the other benefits you
can get from this practice?
According to a survey, 86% of
399 out-of-body participants
had a greater
awareness of reality.
>> Your whole reality changes.
Your perception of
reality changes.
Your-- what's important
to you changes.
And your emphasis in
through life changes.
Your trajectory in life
changes because you're
no longer obsessed with
acquisition of things.
>> Another claimed benefit by
astral travelers is a decreased
fear of death due to the
realization of our immortality.
>> My fear of death
is completely gone.
I know, because you
know from experience.
We're immortal.
We're powerful.
We create our own realities.
>> Other claims from OBEs
include increased psychic
abilities, the ability to
time travel and visit other
dimensions, spontaneous
healing, meeting dead relatives
and spirit guides, and
increased spirituality.
>>NOORY: All of those are
possible, all of them.
What do you think of that?
>>MCNAMARA: Absolutely.
It's as if there's a whole part
of ourselves that is available,
if we're willing to take
a chance, make the effort,
do the exploration, do
the studying involved.
If anyone wants to
have the experience,
and if their life allows
them to, because sometimes
life makes us have to
focus on other things, more
earthly things,
but it's available
because it is part of ourselves.
It's not-- there's
no gatekeeping here.
No one's in control.
>>NOORY: Are we born with it?
>>MCNAMARA: Are we?
>>NOORY: Born with
these abilities,
or do we train them
and enhance them?
>>MCNAMARA: Some
children report having
these abilities
naturally, and then they
stop as the brain develops
and the child grows up.
So I think because
we are-- some part
of us is beyond space
and time, it was there
before we were born
from our mothers,
and it'll be there after we
die and the body decomposes.
So in a sense, yeah,
we are born with it
because it's what
we have always been.
But it's important for me
to remember that who I am
is still also largely,
right now for me,
what I've experienced
in my, up to now,
47 years on this
planet in this body.
So some part of me
existed before that,
but who I identify with
now in my limited way,
because I have this
brain, it's really
I have to acknowledge the
relationships, the friendships,
the challenges, the
experiences in this life.
That's who I am, too.
>>NOORY: You've done some work
with our friend, Paola Harris--
>>MCNAMARA: Yes.
>>NOORY: --and Ricardo Gonzalez.
What did you do with them?
>>MCNAMARA: Well,
Ricardo is from Peru.
He's an experiencer.
He has been for many
years, and his ability
to communicate with
non-human entities who
show up in the sky, so UFOs.
And he sometimes comes
to Crestone, Colorado,
where Paola Harris
has some land.
And so over a weekend,
they host a group,
where we do meditations
and discussion,
and then go out skywatching
for a couple nights
and have experiences.
And it was really a
gift the first time
I went with them because I'd
had some contact with non-human
or extraterrestrials.
>>NOORY: Who drew them
in-- you or Ricardo?
>>MCNAMARA: No, Ricardo.
Yeah, so I was just there as
a visitor, as an observer.
>>NOORY: A witness.
>>MCNAMARA: As a witness.
And I was there to verify--
I had had experiences
in the liminal state,
so I didn't see things
while I was awake,
but I was in the out-of-body
state, let's say.
And I wasn't sure, is this real?
So I was able to go to
this real experience
with a group of people,
with Ricardo and Paola.
And then when things showed
up in the sky, then I knew,
yes, I'm not just
fooling myself.
And everybody else is seeing
the same thing I'm seeing.
And the first time
I went, Ricardo
used a verification process
because sometimes something
can appear in the
sky, and it might
be a rocket returning through
the atmosphere and burning up.
But he had us do this technique
of asking for verification
because there's a sense that
they're communicating with us.
So we saw this flashbulb--
it's just one example--
a flashbulb in the sky.
And then he said,
now you have to ask,
please verify so
that I know it's you,
and that's something else.
We all ask, please verify--
>>NOORY: And they
picked up on it.
>>MCNAMARA: And
they do another one.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
>>MCNAMARA: And then
I saw one privately,
and I asked for verification,
and it did it just for me.
So there's the idea that
there's telepathic communication
happening, that we are connected
to them, they can communicate,
and they'll do it through
telepathic thought or just
a light in the sky.
And of course,
there's always room
for doubt, which I think keeps
us sane, because the last thing
I want to do is
believe in something
and realize it was just
a balloon or something.
>>NOORY: How
psychically inclined
do you say you would be, Sean?
>>MCNAMARA: Because it's always
on my mind and I'm open to it,
maybe more than
the average person.
I'm a little bit above average.
I'm not a superstar,
but for me, it's
just important to know that
I've had so much validation.
So much evidence has
been shown to me.
I have produced so much evidence
over and over and over again
that I don't need to be
extremely psychic for the value
to be there.
>>NOORY: But you
know it's there.
>>MCNAMARA: I know it's there.
It has served me
spontaneously several times.
Spontaneous things happen.
And so it's
unquestionable for me,
except for those times
when I really doubt myself,
and my biggest joy, though, is
teaching it to other people.
>>NOORY: How do you teach
other people to be psychic?
>>MCNAMARA: Well, I take the
assumption that everybody
is already psychic,
and then it's
a matter of taking them from
that everyday beta wavelength
state of mind to a more
alpha or theta stage,
just more relaxed and open,
and then setting intention,
so depending on
if they're trying
to perceive a picture they'll
see two hours in the future
or move an object
with their mind
or preparing them
to leave their body,
it's really about relaxation,
about confidence, about
comfort, and just repetition.
And when people are open to
it and don't overthink it,
they'll succeed.
And I've seen it
happen so many times.
I can tell the people
who will struggle
the most in my classes.
>>NOORY: Right away?
>>MCNAMARA: They're
the smartest ones.
They're the physicists,
the mathematicians,
the engineers
because while they're
trying to do the
technique, they're
thinking way too hard about
it, and they're not entering
that appropriate state of mind.
So I remind them,
just let it go.
>>NOORY: You talked
about the blinking UFO
and how you were
able to use your mind
power to kind of summit it
up to communicate with you.
Recently, Nick
Pope, on Gaia News,
talked about UFOs
and disclosure.
And he's on to something.
>> The big story, of course,
was the preliminary assessment
of unidentified aerial
phenomena produced by the Office
of the Director of
National Intelligence.
It said that a lot
of these sightings
could not be explained, even
after rigorous investigation
by the military.
It said that some of
these cases appeared
to display the hallmarks
of advanced technology.
Two examples of that
are signature management
and a degree of
radiofrequency energy.
So it was big.
And, of course,
work is continuing,
the all sorts of follow-up.
>> This year saw a number of
senior government officials
speak out on the issue of UFOs
and potential extraterrestrial
life.
>> 2021 absolutely saw an uptick
in the number of senior people
speaking out on this.
We had former Director of
National Intelligence John
Ratcliffe.
We had former CIA
Director James Woolsey,
D&I Avril Haines, head of
NASA, spoke, Jeff Bezos spoke,
and a number of others.
Again, it's
unprecedented, I think.
One has had people,
like Luis Elizondo,
of course, speaking out
on this for some time now.
And what we're seeing
now is almost a sort
of validation of a lot of that,
when the senior folks pile in
and say, yes, there is
something to all this.
And who am I to rule out
even the extraterrestrial
hypothesis?
>>NOORY: I think the
world of Nick Pope.
He's a great
investigator and has
done some remarkable things.
And I think we're on to
something with this, aren't we?
>>MCNAMARA: Absolutely.
What's surprising to me, though,
is that as these sightings
have shown up in the news
in the last few years,
that it's often not the headline
banner on any news website.
It's item number 4 or 5.
And--
>>NOORY: You would think
it would be number one.
>>MCNAMARA: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
And I asked my friends
about it or the public, hey,
do you remember the Tic Tac
UFO incident, for example?
And they haven't heard about it.
It's as if some part
of the human mind
has a hard time taking
in this new information.
And it might just be
a process of time.
And as people get
accustomed to it,
they'll start to respond
more strongly when
these events occur on the news.
>>NOORY: If you could
wave a magic wand,
Sean, over any psychic
student, what would you
want them to accomplish?
>>MCNAMARA: Oh, the
ability to express love.
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
>>MCNAMARA: For
me, the biggest joy
of teaching psychic
abilities to people
has been watching
the students open up,
and it's an exchange
of friendship,
of trust and openness,
and the best experiences
happen when there's the presence
of love in a person's heart.
Love fuels so many
of these experiences.
And because of the
reminder that we
are more than just physical
beings, some part of us
is deeply, deeply connected
to universal love.
And so when a person can
feel that for him or herself
and share it with someone
else and remind them,
you're not just
your limited self,
but there's something
so much more to you,
I think that is the biggest gift
related to psychic abilities
and spiritual phenomena.
>>NOORY: Does positive
thinking enhance this?
>>MCNAMARA: Absolutely,
because it requires
trust, trust in
oneself, trust in life,
trust in something
bigger than ourselves,
and you can't be
a positive thinker
and be fearful or
angry at the same time.
They just don't work
at the same time.
>>NOORY: It's amazing when
some of these psychic events
happen to us.
You almost sit back
and giggle because you
know what's going to happen.
And it does.
And you go, I knew it.
It happens, doesn't it?
>>MCNAMARA: It does.
And sometimes my jaw
still lands on the floor
when I see it happen, and I
love watching the surprise
on my friends' faces
when they still
have doubts about themselves,
and I show them the picture
that they were trying
to perceive psychically.
And it's such a great match
for what they were drawing.
And they still don't understand,
like, how did I do that?
And that's the tricky part is
we don't know exactly how it
happens, just that it does.
So it's fun.
It's entertaining.
There's an almost permanent
sense of mystery to it
because that part we can't know,
but we can experience it still.
>>NOORY: Sean, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>MCNAMARA: Thank you
for having me, George.
>>NOORY: One of the
wonders of being
on "Beyond Belief"
and Gaia, of course,
is that we explore different
avenues of psychic ability.
People like Sean McNamara--
that is somebody
who can help teach
us to get to the other side
in a very, very upbeat way.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]